A Song of Calling the Guru from Afar
by the Fifth Shamarpa, Könchok Yenlak

kyema, pa jetsün lama rinpoche
Kyema! Beloved master, precious one, father of mine,
khyö sangye kün dang yermé kyang
You are forever one with all the buddhas,
deng möpé bu la tuk tsewé
Now show your kindness and love to your devoted child,
tral gyalsé chok gi tsul zung né
You who took birth intentionally
lar samshyin kyewa shyé dzepé
In the form of a supreme bodhisattva—
pal karma pa shyé yongsu drak
Renowned universally as the glorious Karmapa.

jé khyö kyi jinlab mi men yang
Precious lord, your blessings are not without power,
gyü nyönmong drakpö yong zung né
Yet my mind is in the grip of tempestuous disturbing emotions,
lé nakpö chöpa darwé tsé
And as our negative actions and karma grow ever stronger,
dünyik ma nga dö semchen nam
All that awaits the sentient beings of this degenerate age
ok ngensong yangsa khonar lhung
Is to fall into the depths of the lower realms:
pa tukjé zung shyik karma pa
Karmapa, father of mine, hold me with all your compassion!

lé ngar jé nam ladön ma chi
Whatever I’ve done in the past has been devoid of any meaning,
chö ngar jé nam la chö gyé dré
The Dharma I have practised till now has been riddled with the eight worldly preoccupations,
lam nalma drubpa chik ma dren
Never did it occur to me, even once, to follow the genuine path.
da khyerang minpa resa mé
Now there is no-one I can rely on, save you:
pa tukjé zung shyik karma pa
Karmapa, father of mine, hold me with all your compassion!

lar shinjé kyebü gyab né dé
While the Lord of Death hounds me from behind,
dü loda shyak gi dün né sü
Days, months, years—time draws me onwards from in front,
tral namyeng jawé bar né dri
And in between, seduced and enthralled by distraction,
dé ma tsor lü shik jung nyen da
The danger is that, without ever even realizing it, I’ll be completely deceived:
pa tukjé zung shyik karma pa
Karmapa, father of mine, hold me with all your compassion!

shyön wangpo sal tsé jipé sem
In the prime of youth, the mind is immature.
lü dar la bab tsé drelwé yeng
When we come of age, we’re distracted by busyness.
da gé shing khokpar gyurpé tsé
Once old age and infirmity set in,
chö shama dren kyang chi né song
We may think about the real Dharma, but then it’s far too late:
pa tukjé zung shyik karma pa
Karmapa, father of mine, hold me with all your compassion!

rang döpar dö kyang dö wangmé
I wish to stay on here, but it’s out of my control,
nor khyerwar dö kyang khyer mi tub
I wish to bring my possessions, but I cannot take a thing,
drok drokpar dö kyang rang chikpu
I wish for the comfort of companions, but I have to go alone;
sang jikten parol drowar ngé
Sooner or later, I will go on to the next world, that’s for sure:
pa tukjé zung shyik karma pa
Karmapa, father of mine, hold me with all your compassion!

tsé di yi bakchak penpé tü
Propelled by the habitual patterns of this life,
lamwar dö trang la chindra ang
What will it be like, my journey through the bardo realm?
pé dangsum nyalwé milam shyin
It will be as hard for me to control
lar rangwang tobpa shintu ka
As the dreams I had in my sleep last night:
pa tukjé zung shyik karma pa
Karmapa, father of mine, hold me with all your compassion!

chir khorwé chö la nyingpo mé
All things in saṃsāra and nirvāṇa are devoid of any substance,
gö mi tak lü la nyingpo mé
This body will not last, and has no reality of its own.
di namkhar sharwé jatsön dra
Like the rainbow that arches across the sky,
dé denpar zung yang yal né dro
It is taken as real, but fades into thin air:
pa tukjé zung shyik karma pa
Karmapa, father of mine, hold me with all your compassion!

yar sangye nam la depamé
Towards the buddhas, I have not the slightest devotion,
mar semchen nam la nyingjé chung
For sentient beings, only the meagrest compassion,
gö ngurmik gyön kyang zuknyen tsam
The red robes I wear are only a show, and
tra pudri shyar yang dön go chung
My shaven head means next to nothing:
pa tukjé zung shyik karma pa
Karmapa, father of mine, hold me with all your compassion!

chö töpa mang yang né ma trol
So many teachings I’ve heard, but I’ve not yet got the crucial point,
kha shepa tso yang gyü ma dul
However artful at talking, my basic being is still untamed,
né ritrö drim yang khyim la sé
I put myself into retreat, but I’m craving for home and family,
mik tatang jé kyang nyamnyong mé
I’ve got my eyes in the right gaze, but lack any real experience:
pa tukjé zung shyik karma pa
Karmapa, father of mine, hold me with all your compassion!

mi shyen gyi kyön tsang chung ngu rik
By marking even the smallest failing in others,
rang khong né rulwa yé ma tsor
But failing ever to notice how rotten I am inside,
mi shyen gyi gowo kor kor né
By constantly fooling and misleading other people,
duk rang gi nyöpa ma lak sam
Aren’t I just purchasing my own misery?
pa tukjé zung shyik karma pa
Karmapa, father of mine, hold me with all your compassion!

khong gyalwé sung rab malü kün
How can ignoring that the teachings of all the buddhas
semgyü la é pen mi sempar
Are there to benefit my mind,
khé drakpa drub chir tö sam jé
And studying instead for the sake of profit or renown,
dé tarpé lam du é dro ang
Ever lead me along the path of liberation?
pa tukjé zung shyik karma pa
Karmapa, father of mine, hold me with all your compassion!

nga chöpé tsul gyi jikten drub
Passing for a practitioner, my practice is only worldly achievement,
lar kyewo kün gyi chöpa len
Taking offerings from all and sundry,
tsé yang yeng jawé ngang du tang
Careless and easy-going, I watch my life go by.
uk trok ger dro dü chindra ang
Yet when I breathe out for the very last time, what’ll happen to me then?
pa tukjé zung shyik karma pa
Karmapa, father of mine, hold me with all your compassion!

dak dé lé kyowa tingné kyé
Because of all this, I feel my heart breaking in sorrow,
yar sangye nam la solwa deb
And I pray now to all the buddhas,
chir nyikmé dü kyi semchen dang
For the beings of this degenerate age, and
gö chö zuk tsulchen dak sok la
Especially those like me, who just bear the likeness of practitioners:
pa tukjé zung shyik karma pa
Karmapa, father of mine, hold me with all your compassion!

bu nga la resa shyen namé
This child has no-one to rely on now but you.
jadral gyi kyiduk khyerang shé
Idling my time away—happy, suffering, whatever happens to me, I am in your hands.
ying zakmé dechen podrang né
Lord, in the palace of the space of immaculate great bliss,
gön khyé dang yermé ro chik shok
May I remain one with you, always and forever!

Composed by Shamar Könchok Yenlak in the Jewel Cave at Tsāritra.

| Adapted for Lotsawa House from a translation by Rigpa Translations (2000), 2020.