An Envoy for Swiftly Invoking the Blessings of Definitive Meaning
Calling the Great Omniscient Jonangpa from Afar
by Jamyang Khyentse Chökyi Lodrö

lama dampa dangpö sangye pal dü kyi khorlo dang yermé pa chok tu migyurwa dewa chenpo yeshe
chakgyé ku nampa tamché pé chok dang denpé tongpanyi kyi tuk dang denpa dendön nampa chunyi
kyi sung ngedön zabmö drayang a di ka di daknyi chok chü shying tamché du drokpé ku migyurwa
yangdakpé tsen dang pejé dampé gyenpé ku nam ché chakgya chenpo dorjé nyima tong gi zi
ö kyi sa sum küntu yangdakpar khyabpa namkha tar ta dang mu mepa tenyo tamché kyi sok tu
shyukpa shintu tra shying zab la takpar kawa dulmé duldral gyi daknyi chok tu dewa dampé
daknyi chenpor nammé sherab tongnyi kyi chakgya chenpo dang nyampar jor shying namkha gangwé
deshyin shekpa tamché gang gi ku la yangdakpar shyukpa nyi du jesu chakpa chenpö nyö shing
zakmé ga shyi roltsé hang yik gi dra chen drok shing shyüpa lé deshek shyiwa dang trowo
chakdral dang chakchen gyi sangye dang changsem rigdzin pawo khandro tongsum gyi tongchenpo
rabjam gyatsö dul gyi drang dang nyampa ngönpar tro shying düpé chi pal sishyi wangchuk
chenpo dü sum sangye tamché kyi jungné künkhyen chö kyi jé dolpo sherab gyaltsen palzangpö
shyab la dü taktu chaktsal lo
Noble guru, inseparable from the original buddha, glorious Kālacakra, supremely immutable great
bliss in the form of the wisdom mudrā, with a mind of emptiness endowed with the supreme
of all aspects, and speech of the twelve aspects of true reality, the profound intonement
of the definitive meaning in the form of vowels and consonants, resounding throughout all
the realms of the ten directions; your unchanging form ornamented with the sublime marks
and signs of purity, a great mudrā, shedding the light of a thousand vajra suns everywhere
throughout the three worlds, as infinite and boundless as space, the life-force of all
the animate and inanimate, extremely subtle and profound, difficult to fathom, pure and stainless,
the great embodiment of supreme bliss, united with the great consort of wisdom-emptiness
beyond features, with whose form all the tathāgatas who fill the whole of space, intoxicated
with great passion, seek perfect union, proclaiming the great sound of "Haṃ!" in
the play of the four immaculate joys, and through the process of melting, you emanate and
reabsorb peaceful and wrathful sugatas, passionate and passionless, buddhas and bodhisattvas,
vidyādharas, vīras and ḍākinīs, as numerous as the infinite atoms in the vast trichiliocosm—great
universal splendour, mighty lord, source of all the buddhas of the three times,
Omniscient Lord of Dharma Dolpo Sherab Gyaltsen Palzangpo, at your feet I bow down in
perpetual homage.
chö do
To you I make offerings.
kyab su chi o
In you I take refuge.
kyewa dang tserab tamché du tukjé zung du sol
In all my births and lives to come, hold me with compassion, I pray.
dak sok semchen tamché lé ngenpé wang du mi tong shying khorwé damdzab lé drang du sol
Do not allow me or any other sentient being to succumb to negative actions and lead us out of
saṃsāra’s mire, I pray.
shyiwa nyangdé kyi tadak tu sol
Purify the extreme of nirvāṇa and quiescence, I pray.
tsultrim dang ting ngé dzin dang sherab kyi pungpo yongsu dzokpar jingyi lab tu sol
Bless me, I pray, so I may perfect the amassing of discipline, samādhi and wisdom.
ngejung dang changsem yangdakpé tawa gyü la kyewa dang
Bless me, so I may develop renunciation, bodhicitta and the authentic view,
pal dorjé naljor zablam tartuk jorwa yenlak druk gi naljor tsé di nyi la drubwar jingyi lob
shik
And accomplish in this very lifetime the six-branch yoga that is the ultimate profound path
of the glorious vajra yoga.
trulpa shyen tong du tokpar jingyi lob shik
Bless me, so I may realize delusion as empty-of-other!
künkhyen dzokpé sangye khyé dak gi nying ü su takpar shyuk né dorjé yeshe kyi nangwa barwa dang
All-knowing, perfect buddha, remain forever in the centre of my heart and cause the light of
vajra wisdom to shine.
zung pob ting ngé dzin gyi go gya jepar jingyi lob shik
Bless me, so that a hundred gateways to mnemonic retention (dhāraṇī), courageous eloquence,
and meditative absorption may be unlocked.
khyen no khyen no lama khyerang khyen no
Watch over me! Watch over me! O guru, may you watch over me!

Thus, I prayed on the eighteenth day of the eleventh month. Siddhirastu!

|Translated by Adam Pearcey with the generous support of the Khyentse Foundation and Tertön
Sogyal Trust, 2022.

Sources
'Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros. "kun mkhyen jo nang pa chen por rgyang 'bod nges don byin rlabs
myur du 'gugs pa'i pho nya/" in gsung 'bum/_'jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros/ (dbu med/).
8 vols. Gangtok: Dzongsar Khyentse Labrang, 1981–1985 (BDRC W21813). Vol. 1: 445–447
'Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros. "kun mkhyen jo nang pa chen por rgyang 'bod nges don byin rlabs
myur du 'gugs pa'i pho nya/" in 'Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros kyi gsung 'bum. 12 vols.
Bir: Khyentse Labrang, 2012. W1KG12986. Vol. 8: 530–532

Version: 1.0-20220208