Dispelling the Anguish of Existence and Quiescence
A Prayer of Calling the Guru from Afar
by Jamyang Khyentse Chökyi Lodrö

wé wé lama khyen no
Weh! Weh! O guru, care for me!
khyen no khyen no lama khyen no
Watch over me! Care for me, O guru! Care for me!
sangye kündü kyi ngowo
Essence and embodiment of all the buddhas,
damchö rinchen gyi jungné
Source of the precious and sacred Dharma,
pak tsok gendün gyi ngadak
Sovereign of the noble saṅgha community,
tsawé lama rang khyen no
My very own root guru, care for me!
tsa gyü lama yi tro shyi
Basis for the emergence of the root and lineage gurus,
yidam shyitro kündüpa
Universal embodiment of the peaceful and wrathful yidams,
khandro chökyong gi terdzö
Treasury of the ḍākinīs and dharma guardians,
lama kadrinchen khyen no
O gracious guru, care for me!
Make an appeal with this call from afar three times or more, then continue with:
lé ngen dak la tukjé zik shik
Look upon me, a wrongdoer, with compassion!
kal men kyé ngen dukngal tso lé
Lift me with your hands of loving kindness
jampé chak gi drongpar dzö chik
From this sea of misery and misfortune
tarpé kam sar ukyung tsol chik
And deliver me to the dry land of liberation.

kyema dak dré semchen lé ngen nam
Kyema! Beings like me with negative karma
daljor tob kyang dönmé chüzö tang
Obtain but squander the freedoms and advantages.
chiwa mi dren dir nang wang du song
Failing to remember death, we become absorbed in the affairs of this life.
nyin reshyin du go sum dikpar chö
Every day we carry out misdeeds of body, speech and mind,
gewé lé ni tra tsé chu tik tsam
While our virtuous actions resemble droplets on a tip of hair.
dren dang sheshyin mé dé nyönpa dra
Lacking mindfulness and vigilance, we act as if crazy.
bakyö tor né bakmé namyeng ngang
Casting caution aside, we are reckless and distracted.
mitsé nyima nub ri pak tu kyal
The sun of our lives has passed beyond the western peaks.
pama jorden khyim du kyepa am
Whether we were born into a home with affluent parents
jormé ulpö khyim du kyé kyang rung
Or to an impoverished family lacking wealth,
ché truk gya yen gang jung gangshar gyi
Whether we were cherished or neglected, no matter what the case,
rang lo nang duma khuk ngen gom kyi
We did not turn our attention within but slipped into bad habits
chu ngen lam gyuk wang du shorwa dang
And entered the muddy waters of unwholesome ways.
damchö jé lo mashar sem di ni
The thought of practising the sacred Dharma never occurred to us,
dowa dang tsung chiwa ong nyammé
With our rock-like minds that never contemplate the coming of death.
nyintsen tamché kyi kyi ngang du zé
All our days and nights have been spent in idle merriment,
yangna duk gi ngang dudü da shying
Or we have passed the time in pain and distress—
kyi dö dukngal nyowa kyema hü
As if in seeking happiness we bought only misery instead—kyemahü!
langtso dzepé trakdang nyurdu yal
The radiance of youth and beauty quickly fades,
shinjé chewé bardu zung né duk
And we are caught between the jaws of Yama, lord of death,
so yi ma tab tsam nakha jé ché
Our only fortune is that they have not yet clamped shut.
chiwa shyé jé düpo ngam nak dé
When the dark demon that we call “death” approaches
shyakpa zung né gam na lebpé dü
And throws its noose around us,
kha shé khepé go korja samé
There’ll be no way to cajole it through glib talk or flattery.
gyunor chewé lu ru mi tub ching
Nor will we be able to bribe it with great riches and resources.
tu dang nüpé tob kyi dok tumé
And the force of our power and influence will not avert it.
lakpa drang tab mik gor chima lhuk
Well may we beat our chests and weep,1
drok dang dzashé khang khyim nordzé sok
For this is the time when we must leave behind
shul du shyak né drowé dü shik ong
Our companions, family, home, wealth and possessions.
detsé dik sak lé kyi khurpo ni
And our only burden, which we must carry into the bardos,
lhünpö tö tsam khyer newar dor khyam
Will be the mountainous accumulation of our own misdeeds.
gewé sakpa dultren tsam chi kyang
We may have accrued a modicum of virtue,
detsé sönam kyab shik yö na yang
And we may seek the solace of merit at that time,
danta ma sak dedü khyer gyumé
But unless we gather it now we’ll have nothing to take with us.
bardor jiktrak dukngal pakmé nyong
In the bardo we’ll face horrors and torments beyond measure.
ngensong né tung dukngal zö lakmé
Should we fall into the lower realms our misery will be unbearable.
danta metak pok dang nyin chik gi
If now we cannot bear even so much as the pain from a spark of flame
chak tok mi zö dedü gala zö
Or a single day’s cold and hunger, how will we possibly cope?2
shuk drak gyün ring zö ké dukngal dé
Let us consider well this intense, enduring and intolerable suffering,
lekpar sam né damchö nying né drub
And put the Dharma into practice from the depths of our hearts.
go sum gé la bé nü jingyi lob
Inspire us with your blessings, so that we may devote body, speech and mind to virtue.

kyema kyihü rigdzin pema jung
Kyema kyihü! O vidyādhara Padmākara!
lona chö la gyur chik lama khyen
Turn my mind towards the Dharma! O guru, care for me.
daljor tobpa daré tsam shyik yin
I may have found the freedoms and advantages this time,
chi né dindra tobpa si ta tsam
But to acquire them again in future will be almost impossible.
galté takhob lalo chömé sar
Even if I were to gain a human form in a border region
milü tob kyang nyingpo chungzé mé
Of barbarians who lack the Dharma it would be to no avail.
dé ru mi kyewa yi mönlam tob
So I pray never to take birth in such a place.
lha yi né su kyé kyang göpa chung
Even to be reborn among the devas is of little use,
zakché dé dré zé né ngendror tung
As once the tainted fruit of happiness is exhausted we must fall into the lower realms.
dena nyé ké milü rinchen di
Therefore, this precious human form, which is so difficult to obtain,
norbu gya tong tobpé pé mi tsön
Cannot be compared even to gaining a hundred or a thousand jewels.
di tob dik la chöpa shintu lün
To acquire it and then act only negatively would be utter folly,
per na norbu damdzab pang shyin gyur
Akin to throwing a jewel into a cesspit.

kyema kyihü rigdzin pema jung
Kyema kyihü! O vidyādhara Padmākara!
lona chö la gyur chik lama khyen
Turn my mind towards the Dharma! O guru, care for me.
lek na tarpé druzing lü di yin
Used well, this body is a ferry to liberation.
nyé na khorwé tingdo di jepé
Used poorly, it is an anchor in saṃsāra.
yar dro mar drö satsam daré yin
Now is the crucial juncture for going up or down,
ta kha sab kyi gyurwa jishyin du
Like the moment of steering a horse by its reins.
nyechö lam lé dok chik lama khyen
O Guru, care for me: help me to turn away from misconduct!

döpa la chak pung trol kyepé gyu
Attachment to desires is a cause of ruin and destruction,
sok ka pel ka serné düpa dam
It’s hard to gather and increase possessions when caught in the knot of avarice
jin dremé na drangmé drangtsi shyin
And lacking the fruits of past generosity, but if we have a store of merit from the past,
ngön sak sönam yö na bemé jor
Like honey collected by bees, wealth will come to us with ease.
dewé chöjin nüpar lama khyen
O guru, care for me: help me to make generous offerings and gifts!

khyim na nepa nyepa kün gyi shyi
Remaining a householder is the basis of all faults
chakdang nyi kyi nyintsen tamché da
And devoting day and night to attachment and aversion.
dradul nyen kyong sonam chi jé kyang
However much we might strive to overcome rivals, protect friends or work the land,
zinpé dümé chi chir jecher pel
There will never be an end to it, and our tasks will only continue to increase,
döpé dön madrubpé duk gi tser
As we are tormented by the failure to accomplish our aims.
rang duk rang nyo ma gö lama khyen
O guru, care for me, so that I’m not required to purchase my own misery!

khorwé né ni mé yi ob dang tsung
The regions of saṃsāra are like a pit of flames,
sinmö ling dang raldri nönpö so
An island of cannibals, the blade of a sword,
duk dang drawé nyemik dren jé né
Or a draught of poison—as I recall these faults,
si lé ngejung kyewar lama khyen
O guru, care for me, so that I develop the wish to escape conditioned existence!

khorwa ngensong dukngal tadak lé
That which can afford protect against all the miseries
kyobpar nüpa lama könchok yin
Of saṃsāra and the lower realms is the guru and Three Jewels.
dé lé shyenpé kyobpa su yangmé
No one else can guard us in this way.
dang dö yiché dé mö drakpo yi
O guru, care for me, so that with vivid, eager and confident faith
kyab sum rang ngoshepar lama khyen
And intense devotion, I may recognise the essence of the threefold refuge!

semchen tamché pamar magyur mé
There’s not a single being who hasn’t been my mother or father.
danta trul té dakshyen chokri jé
Yet now in my delusion I discriminate between my own and others’ sides,
chak dang dangwé drok gi chingwa di
And am bound by the fetters of attachment and aversion.
tsawa dak tu dzinpa ngö zin né
O guru, care for me, so that I may recognise the root of my self-clinging
dakmé neluk tokpar lama khyen
And realize the natural state beyond self!

dro kün pamar gyurpa shejé té
O guru, care for me, so that in the knowledge that all beings have been my parents in the past,
drinzo pen dö lhaksam zangpo yi
I may be able to train my mind repeatedly
jam dang nyingjé changchub sem chok la
In loving kindness, compassion and the supreme mind of bodhicitta,
yangyang lojong nüpar lama khyen
With the noble intention to repay their kindness and help them all.

tsok nyi ma sak dribpa ma jang na
Unless I gather the two accumulations and purify obscurations,
ku shyi gopang namyang mi tobpé
I will never attain the level of the four kāyas.
dré tren yidak kyewé gyu pang né
So let me abandon the cause for rebirth as a preta or hungry ghost,
sönam tsokchen sak la bepa dang
And make an effort to accumulate vast stores of merit.
deyang ngö shyen dendzin gyi ma lé
In addition, let me gather vast stores of wisdom,
chö kün gyuma gyumé rangshyin tong
By resting my mind in insight—beyond the three conceptual spheres—
khor sum mikpa mepé sherab la
Into the illusoriness of all phenomena and their lack of inherent nature,
lo shyak yeshe tsokchen sakpa dang
Untainted by any clinging to reality or apprehension of true existence.
di tsön gewa namkhé ta khyab kyi
And let me dedicate all the virtue that this represents to all beings
dro la yong ngo jampal pawo yi
Throughout the whole of space, by emulating the hero Mañjuśrī,
jesu shyuk né ngö shyin drubpa dang
Without any expectation of gaining a result or anything in return,
len dang nampar min la mi töpar
And with the total purity of the three conceptual spheres—
khor sum yong dak nüpar lama khyen
O guru, care for me: enable me to accomplish this!

tokmé dü né sakpé dikdrib kyi
Misdeeds and obscurations accumulated throughout beginningless time
deshek nyingpö rang shyal dribpé na
Veil the true face of my own buddha nature (sugatagarbha),
marik gi kyé duk sum gyi langwé
So I confess with all four powers my nonvirtuous actions
mi gé lé nam tob shyi tsangwé shak
Prompted by the three poisons that ignorance creates.
gyö dang dam semmé na mi dakpé
Since there can be no purification without regret and resolve,
nying né nonggyö drakpö tol shying shak
I confess with sincere, heartfelt repentance and remorse.
ma shak nyepa tramo shyik gi kyang
Even a tiny fault that is not openly admitted
tsa yi pungpor mé ni dzinpa shyin
May set my mind aflame, like a bundle of hay,
ranggyü sek shing khorwar penpé na
And cast me into saṃsāra—O guru, care for me,
shakpé dikdrib dakpar lama khyen
So that I may confess and purify my misdeeds and obscurations.

rang gi sem kyi neluk ma tok na
If I do not realize the natural state of my own mind,
kha shé khé dang namtok gompa yi
I will never attain great awakening
changchub chenpo namyang mi tobpé
Through cultivating clever talk or ideas.
rang gi sem kyi tsawa chöpa dang
When we investigate the mind at its root,
jitar nangwa sem kyi chotrul yin
We find that how we perceive is but mind’s creation.
khordé redok sem kyi dzintang té
Saṃsāra and nirvāṇa, hope and fear—they are postures of mind.
semnyi tsawa ché na shyi tsadral
And when we investigate mind as such, it is without basis or origin.
mé nangtong pé rang zuk khona la
Apparent yet nonexistent, this expression of emptiness,
jipa nam kyi denpar zungwa té
Which the childish take to be real,
jitar kha la trashé nangwa shyin
Is like the appearance of floating hairs in space—
nangwa nyi né rang gi ngowö tong
Even as it appears it is empty of its own essence.
dena semnyi yé tong kané dak
Thus the mind itself has always been empty, primordially pure.
yöpa mayin gyalwé kyang ma zik
It is not existent, for even the buddhas have not seen it.
mepa mayin khordé shyir gyur kyang
It is not nonexistent, for it’s the basis of saṃsāra and nirvāṇa.
ngöpo tsenma chen du drubpamé
Yet it is not established as something real or discernible,
gyaché chokdral namkhé pé yi tsön
But is beyond limits and extent, as in the example of space.
ngowo tong la rangshyin ösalwa
Empty in essence, its nature is luminous clarity,
tukjé rigpa khordé kün la khyab
And its resonance, awareness, pervades all of saṃsāra and nirvāṇa.
riktsal dak dang ma dak chiryang shar
The expression of awareness may manifest either purely or impurely.
sum du ché yang dön la rigpa chik
And although we divide it into three, awareness is really one.
shyi yi neluk tokpar lama khyen
O guru, care for me, so that I may realize the natural state of the ground.

denyi lamé drin gyi ngotrö né
Having recognized this through the guru’s kindness,
tröpé drondok chöpé tawa dang
May I master the view devoid of conceptual projection,
machö yengmé dzindral gompé né
The key points of meditation—uncontrived, undistracted and free from clinging,
gangshar rangdrol drowa chöpa té
And the conduct through which whatever arises is freed by itself—
dé sum yermé shepa lama khyen
O guru, care for me, so that I may understand how these three are indivisible.

döné lhündrub ku sum chenpor shyuk
Original, spontaneous perfection abides as the three great kāyas.
nyi chö kané dakpa uma ché
The Great Middle Way, which is primordially pure, free from dualistic phenomena,
tabshé yermé chakgya chenpo dang
The Great Seal (Mahāmudrā) in which method and wisdom are indivisible,
riktong ösal dzogpachenpo yi
And the Great Perfection (Dzogpachenpo), the luminosity of awareness and emptiness—
rangshyin ngönsum tokpa tarchin né
Having fully mastered the direct realization into the nature of these,
drebu chöku rigpé tsensa zin
May I seize the stronghold of the fruitional awareness of dharmakāya.
khorwa dong né truk nü lama khyen
O guru, care for me, so that I may empty saṃsāra from its very depths.

kyema kyihü rigdzin pema jung
Kyema kyihü! O vidyādhara Padmākara!
lona chö la gyur chik lama khyen
Turn my mind towards the Dharma! O guru, care for me.
ngensong gochen chö chik lama khyen
O Guru, care for me, so that I may close the great gates to the lower realms.
lé ngen dikdrib dakpar lama khyen
O Guru, care for me, so that I may purify my negative karma, misdeeds and obscurations.
kyen ngen changchub lamkhyer lama khyen
O Guru, care for me, so that I may transform adversity into the path to enlightenment.
kyiduk ronyom nüpar lama khyen
O Guru, care for me, so that I may experience the equal flavour of happiness and sorrow.
khordé yermé tokpar lama khyen
O Guru, care for me, so that I may realize the indivisibility of saṃsāra and nirvāṇa.
nang sem shyi drol gyurwa lama khyen
O Guru, care for me, so that appearances and mind may be liberated within the ground.
ku sum rang shyaljalwar lama khyen
O Guru, care for me, so that I may meet my natural face, the three kāyas.
jalü chöku drubpar lama khyen
O Guru, care for me, so that I may attain the rainbow body dharmakāya.
khyen no khyen no jetsün lama khyen
Care for me, care for me, O noble guru, care for me!
resa shyen namé do tukjé zung
I have no other hope but you. Embrace me in your compassion.
Call out in this way with intense yearning and devotion.

Thus, the stubborn dharmaless Chökyi Lodrö wrote this in response to a request from Tsering
Chödrön, queen of ḍākinīs.

| Translated by Adam Pearcey with the generous support of the Khyentse Foundation and Tertön
Sogyal Trust, 2021.

Source: 'Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros. "bla ma rgyang 'bod kyi gsol 'debs srid zhi'i gdung
sel" in ’Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros kyi gsung ’bum. 12 vols. Bir: Khyentse Labrang, 2012.
W1KG12986 Vol. 8: 502–509
↑ Reading lug as lhug here
↑ Reading ‘chag as ‘khyags