The Excellent Path of Supreme Great Bliss
A Prayer for Calling the Guru from Afar
by Kyabje Chatral Rinpoche

Namo gurubhyaḥ!
All vehicles, causal and resultant,Teach that the guru is an emanation of the Buddha,And, therefore,
those who pray to him or her with devotion will undoubtedly receive blessings. Yet
this depends mainly upon one’s own devotion, For how could blessings and accomplishments
ever resultFrom merely mouthing the words of calling out to the guru while still remaining
doubtful? It is vital, therefore, that you supplicate the master strongly with full confidence
and assuranceWhile Calling the Guru from Afar like this:
lama khyen
Guru, please think of me, know me, and bless me!
After calling out three times like this, the master’s compassion reaches out and touches you,
and you continue with:
ngowo chöku kun khyab namkha yi ngang né
Within the essence, dharmakāya, all-pervasive as the sky,
rangshyin longku gakmé nyi ö tar sal shying
The nature, unlimited sambhogakāya, shines like the sun’s luminous rays,
tukje trulku jatsön tabu ru shyeng pé
And compassion, like a rainbow, arises as nirmāṇakāya.
ku sum yermé gongpa nying ü su separ
To awaken in the depths of my heart the wisdom realization of these three kāyas, inseparable
–
sangye ngowo dorje lama khye khyen no
Vajra Guru, essence of the Buddha, please bless me!

ta gyé trö dral dzogchen ye shyi dön tok shing
So that I may realize the original ground, the Great Perfection free from eight limitations,1
ta gom shub né dönpé seng lam gyi bub né
Through the direct path on which the veils of view and meditation are removed,
chatsol shyé dö zepé drebu la jorwé
And, joining with the fruition in which effort and aspiration are no more,
shyi dré yermé dömé chöku ru drolwar
Be liberated in the original dharmakāya, where ground and result have always been indivisible
–
sangye ngowo dorje lama khye khyen no
Vajra Guru, essence of the Buddha, please bless me!

gya la len chik nyepé daljor gyi ten zang
So that I do not squander the excellent support
dön mé tong zé ma tong kyé chi dang bardö
Of this precious human rebirth, found only once in hundreds of lifetimes,
dam zab rang chen chüpé kyelma dang drok né
But, accompanied by guides who have mastered the profound instructions for life, death and the
bardo,
ku sum rang tsal dzokpé tok tsé dang denpar
Achieve the fullness of realization, the perfection of the three kāyas’ own dynamic energy –
sangye ngowo dorje lama khye khyen no
Vajra Guru, essence of the Buddha, please bless me!

chi nang nö chü kechik mitakpé tsang rik
So that I may understand the faults of this momentary, impermanent universe and all it contains,
yé né ma chung ma kyé pogyur dang dralwé
And arrive right now, immediately and effortlessly,
dechen dümaché shing lhundrup kyi sa la
At a state of uncompounded, spontaneously present great bliss,
ma bé shyin du kechik data rang chinpar
Which is primordial – never having arisen, developed, or changed in any way –
sangye ngowo dorje lama khye khyen no
Vajra Guru, essence of the Buddha, please bless me!

jik rung khorwé yang sa yang nga di kyobpé
So that I may enjoy the ambrosia of ripening empowerments and liberating instructions
damchö tekgü tsegyal ati dang yangti
Of Ati and Yangti, the culmination of the nine vehicles of sublime Dharma,
mindrol düdtsi chü rol gatön gyi ngang né
Which protects from saṃsāra’s terrifying ravines,
khorwé dam nang ching lé data rang tarwar
And save myself immediately from sinking deeper into saṃsāra’s mire –
sangye ngowo dorje lama khye khyen no
Vajra Guru, essence of the Buddha, please bless me!

khorwé trülkhor kar nak dé duk gi tsawa
The root of saṃsāra’s vicious circle of confusion – good or bad, happy or painful –
lhenkyé küntak marik sabön la tuk chir
Lies in the seeds of twofold ignorance: connate and conceptual.
dakmé sherab rang jung rigpa yi drönmé
So that I may banish this ignorance, the heart’s darkness, right in its own place
timuk nying gi münpa rang mel du sangpar
With the lamp of self-emergent awareness, the wisdom that realizes the absence of self,
sangye ngowo dorje lama khye khyen no
Vajra Guru, essence of the Buddha, please bless me!

yé drol rigpa döndam neluk kyi kyabyül
Awareness, ever free, is the ultimate refuge, the fundamental nature of reality,
ma ngé nyi tsé kyabdrö tar dré ni mi tob
While uncertain or temporary refuges fail to bring about the absolute fruition.
kyab cha kyab ché kyab dro khor sum dang dralwé
So that I may realize this supreme refuge, the vajra-mind, perfectly accomplished,
yong drup sem kyi dorjé kyab chok tu tokpar
Beyond any notion of subject, object or action of taking refuge –
sangye ngowo dorje lama khye khyen no
Vajra Guru, essence of the Buddha, please bless me!

dak shyen khordé ré dok jur bur yi chingpé
So that I may leave behind attachment to good intentions produced by wishful thinking,
yimön duché sem kyé zang shyen lé dé kyang
Caught in the dualities of self and other, saṃsāra and nirvāṇa, and hope and fear,
tadral döndam chang chub sem nyi kyi shi lé
And remain instead in the certainty that never strays
namyang dawa mepé takchö la népar
From the innate nature of mind – boundless, ultimate, and awakened –
sangye ngowo dorje lama khye khyen no
Vajra Guru, essence of the Buddha, please bless me!

tokmé dü ring tak ké drip nyi kyi mün tuk
The thick darkness of the two obscurations, difficult to discern, has been present throughout
beginningless time,
ösel rigpa yeshe dangden gyi nyimé
But so that the radiant sun of luminous wisdom-awareness
nye tung bakchak drima rang ngo ru sang né
May clear defiled habits, transgressions, and downfalls into their natural purity,
drimé dung dok gönpo dak la rang drubpar
And I may be established as the stainless conch-white Lord Protector2 –
sangye ngowo dorje lama khye khyen no
Vajra Guru, essence of the Buddha, please bless me!

neluk rang ngo shepé tsok chen de dzok né
So that I may perfect the great accumulation – realizing the fundamental nature of reality to
be my own nature –
khyé chö drukden kun zang gong long du chamdal
And abide in the infinitely uniform expanse of Samantabhadra’s wisdom mind, with its six special
features of awakening,3
bé tsol tröpa kündral ati yi tekpé
Through the vehicle of Ati, which is effortless and uncomplicated,
chö kü gyalsi tsé di nyi la rang zinpar
May I seize the kingdom of dharmakāya in this present lifetime:
sangye ngowo dorje lama khye khyen no
Vajra Guru, essence of the Buddha, please bless me!

soldep mögü drakpö nyegyu la ten né
So that I may behold the true master – awareness-emptiness – in the centre of my heart
rigtong dön gyi lama nying ü su jal té
Through the immediate cause of praying intensely with genuine devotion,
sem la rigpa tsal gyi wang chen de tob chir
And realize the great empowerment of awareness’s dynamic energy,
tsön cha dön gyi gong gyü data rang powar
May the wisdom transmission of ultimate indication be transferred this very instant!
sangye ngowo dorje lama khye khyen no
Vajra Guru, essence of the Buddha, please bless me!

sak jong rangsar dak kyang sönam tsok mi chok
Although accumulation and purification are pure in themselves, may gathering merit never cease.
dak shyen nyi su mé kyang semkyé gyün mi ché
Although self and other are non-dual, may generating bodhichitta never stop.
rang sem lamar shé kyang mögü la tak bung
Although the mind is recognized to be the guru, may heartfelt practice never end.
lha ku lok na mé kyang rim nyi la tsönpar
Although the deities’ wisdom forms are never separate, may we strive in the two stages of the
path.4
sangye ngowo dorje lama khye khyen no
Vajra Guru, essence of the Buddha, please bless me!

dor na wenpé ritrö drak puk dang chilbur
In short, in caves and huts in isolated mountain retreats,
chik shé kün drol ma gom sangyé nyi lé
Through the path of enlightenment without meditation, knowing the one crucial point that liberates
all,
gö mé cha tang gyalpö tulshyuk dang drok té
And supported by the truly royal yogic lifestyle of renouncing pointless activity,
khordé barlak gyel nü de kho na jungwar
May I be able to erase the dividing line between saṃsāra and nirvāṇa – for this alone I pray!
sangye ngowo dorje lama khye khyen no
Vajra Guru, essence of the Buddha, please bless me!

rang dön chöku kyemé trödral gyi ying né
Having perfected ourselves, in the space of great simplicity, the unborn dharmakāya,
gakmé zuk ku shyendön trinlé dang chépa
Endless wisdom embodiments will appear to serve others through noble enlightened activity.
ngön gyur sé ché gyalwé shuklam de nyok né
So that I may follow this path actualized by the buddhas and their sublime heirs,
kham sum khorwa dong truk mönpa shyin drubpar
And fulfil my aspiration to empty the three realms of saṃsāra from their very depths,
sangye ngowo dorje lama khye khyen no
Vajra Guru, essence of the Buddha, please bless me!

When Nyakla Abha, who is devoted to the essential yoga, sent a written request, together with
a fine scarf of divine silk and a maṇḍala of a hundred Nepali rupees, I, Sangye Dorje, a
carefree mendicant in these dark times, could not refuse and thus composed this on the excellent
date of the fifteenth day of the eighth month in the Wood Ox year (1985), in the thick
forests and snow mountains of the hidden land of Yolmo.  May it be virtuous! Sarva maṅgalam.

| Translated by Christina Monson and edited by Carol Schlenger, 2016.

Version: 1.1-20210916
↑ Arising and ceasing; being singular or plural; coming and going; being the same or different.↑
Avalokiteśvara↑ Exalted beyond the ground; appearing to oneself; discriminating particulars;
liberating into wisdom; not depending on other conditions; abiding in its own place.↑
Generation and completion stage practices.